[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Another way tapping can
actually be used is to change
lift circumstances.
So we've talked a
little bit about how
to use tapping for
goal setting and things
like that, even performance.
But often, people want to
change a life circumstance.
And a really good example
is something like abundance.
Now, "abundance" means different
things to different people.
That could mean a state of
well-being for somebody.
But it could mean a financial
position for others.
And often, life circumstances
like that come about
for whatever reason.
But tapping can actually
be used to shift them.
So we know that even
behavior patterns that
might be set up in
younger childhood
are still responsive to tapping.
All it is is about
working out, where
did this come from, what
might have contributed,
and perhaps, what it
was that I learned,
even as a younger person,
that may have cemented
or confirmed a
belief in my life?
So Gary Craig, the
originator of EFT,
said, back in the
beginning, that it
was like we're all born into
a palace of possibilities.
So we're born into
this enormous palace.
And every room is open to us.
But because we're in such
a hypnotic brainwave state
for that first 10 or
so years of our life,
we take on other
people's messages.
So we definitely
adopt, very easily
and without questioning,
repetitive messages.
And often, in a life area such
as wealth, money, abundance,
we will naturally adopt,
just by being there,
whatever it is that our primary
people around us believe.
Often, what we believe we say--
so the words we say--
are our thoughts.
And if they're repetitive
enough, we adopt them.
So this is an area that a
lot of people want to change
but don't realize that
EFT can be part of that.
So Gary said, we start to
write all these sayings,
family sayings, maybe
about wealth and abundance,
on the walls in the palace.
And they become a
bit too overwhelming.
So by the time we get
to being an adult,
all these rooms have
got all these family
sayings written all over them.
And we don't want to go
into those rooms anymore.
And we end up living in a palace
in this tiny little room that
hasn't gotten anything written
in it because we're too scared
to go out there.
So family sayings were a
really good place to start.
Now, this is not
a blame exercise.
Our parents only
do what they knew.
We only do, as a
parent, what we know.
And we only teach what
we know to our children.
It's just a way of finding
out, what did I grow up with?
So if he did want to change,
let's say, for example,
the amount of money that
comes into your life
on a monthly basis--
so you could write
down right now,
if you knew or could
guess, what that amount
that comes into my life?
For whatever reason, if you
wanted that to increase,
you've just got to work out,
what are the reasons it can't?
So we talked in our
goal-setting video
that, often, we have this
committee in our head
that tells us all
these one liners.
And it's the same
with family sayings.
So if you were to set a goal,
you'll work some of those out.
Because you'll hear
that voice saying,
you can't have that
goal come true.
But if you were to do
the same thing around,
well, what if I wanted to
double the amount of money that
comes into my life on a monthly
basis, that currently does,
what would that do for me?
Most of the time, people will
say, that's a positive thing.
What is the reason that,
perhaps, you can't, or that you
don't currently?
What messages did you grow
up with about money, wealth,
that type of thing
in the family?
And write them all down.
So typically, in a
workshop situation,
we will ask everybody's
ideas around this.
And the amount of things we
hear go along these lines.
I grew up with the message that
money doesn't grow on trees.
Other messages, who do you
think I am, Rockefeller?
Other things like,
the rich get richer,
and the poor get poorer.
Concepts about
money, how money's
described, that money's
dirty, and after you've
touched coins or notes, you
need to go and wash your hands.
Now, those messages
might be about hygiene
for the mom and the dad.
But what messages might they
become for somebody else,
that perhaps "dirty
money" becomes a concept
in somebody else's life.
So therefore, wanting
more of it doesn't
make you a better person.
It might make you
a worse person.
What are the messages,
perhaps, if we
thought about that area
of wealth creation,
abundance, in your own life,
that maybe you grew up with?
So Gary Craig said
tapping is the eraser.
It's the paint to go into
the other rooms of the palace
and paint them over
or rub them out.
So tapping is about
working out, OK,
what is it here that
I've grown up with?
Going and visiting
family, if you're able to,
is always a really
lovely experiment
that they don't know about.
Because you get to hear
what people talk about.
And, of course, if
any of those beliefs
are often still being
held in yourself,
you'll hear your
mother, or your father,
or your siblings reflect them
back in their conversation.
So it's almost like
anything that you
do here is an opportunity
for you to go, hmm,
there's another one I
could write down on my list
to take home and tap on today.
So if, for the purpose
of this exercise,
we were just to think about--
let's just think about
something as simple as money.
If we were to
almost write a goal
or just have a bit of a thought
at the moment about doubling
your income, your
monthly income,
so whatever it currently is,
where does that feel for you?
Is there a level of discomfort
about whether or not
that can happen for you?
And what might be
the family sayings
about that particular
area, that life
circumstance of just how much
money you have in your life?
Maybe it's about the car
that you set a goal around,
the house that you would like
to live in, that type of thing.
So if we were to think
about that and just tune
in for a moment about,
if I was to think
about just doubling
my monthly income,
how does that make me feel?
Now, if it makes you
feel fine, and you
think that's
perfectly achievable,
triple the amount of money.
We want to reach a point
here where, at some level,
you start to feel,
that's not possible.
That's what we do
we our tapping on.
So this is just a small
exercise to work out.
But remember, sometimes, it's
just the tip of the iceberg .
We might think of
things as we go along.
So let's do some tapping
just to get this going
and maybe just to start
some of these thoughts.
So just repeating after me.
Even though I'm
thinking about doubling
my income on a monthly basis,
I'm not sure I could do that.
I don't know how to do that.
I accept I feel this way.
Even though, when I think
about doubling my income,
I feel uncomfortable,
I'm definitely
hearing someone else's
voice in my head.
I accept I feel this way.
Even though I have this
level of uncomfortableness,
maybe this can't
happen, I know there's
family beliefs about this.
I'm open to changing today.
Up to the eyebrow.
This level of discomfort, this
is not a comfortable feeling.
Under the eye.
I definitely know there's
family sayings here.
My beliefs about money,
this uncomfortable feeling,
these beliefs about money--
under the arm-- all of
these beliefs and feelings,
I'm open to learning
where they came from.
And just take a deep breath.
And maybe just check in.
Whatever feeling that you
may have been focusing on,
whether you feel it
physically in your body
or you just know there's
something that's not quite
right there, if you were to
give it a number out of 10,
where is that?
What's the number?
What's coming to mind?
In tapping around these
kind of life areas,
we really are looking
for things that you
may have heard growing up.
We are looking for beliefs.
And beliefs adapt
with tapping as easily
as a feeling or a
sensation in the body does.
Just about focusing what it is.
So let's do a belief now that
perhaps it's not possible.
And if you can relate
that to anything
that you heard growing up,
think of that specifically.
So up to the eyebrow point.
I don't believe
this is possible.
Side of the eye.
My beliefs about this.
Under the eye.
This belief that
it's not possible.
Under the noise.
My beliefs about money.
On the chin point.
These beliefs that I have.
Collarbone.
These beliefs about money.
Under the arm.
All of these beliefs.
Top of the head.
This uncomfortable feeling
and all of my beliefs.
Take a breath in.
And just check where
that feels at the moment.
And take note.
Write them down if you need to.
Take note of what
else is coming up.
Remember, as the
amygdala gets calmer,
the hippocampus opens
up our memory center.
So sometimes, as we tap
on these types of ideas,
we do start to
think about things.
And even if it was
5 years ago or 15,
make a note of what they are.
And we can come back to them.
But let's do one more round
of tapping where we just start
to notice the
connection, perhaps,
to what we learnt growing up
so that we can actually detach
from that.
Back to the eyebrow point.
Maybe these beliefs aren't mine.
Side of the eye.
I was taught to think this way.
Under the eye.
But maybe I could let it go.
Under the nose.
These beliefs that
I was taught--
on the chin point--
that's all they knew.
Collarbone.
But maybe they're
not my beliefs.
Under the arm.
Perhaps I could be open
to letting them go.
Top of the head.
These beliefs that were taught
to me, that I wish to let
go of.
Take a deep breath.
Sometimes, just giving
yourself permission
to let go of a family pattern,
a family theme, a family way
of being, is all that we need.
So whatever it is, just
remember the family sayings
and the writings on your wall.
And tapping could become the
tool to actually erase those.